A free bird leaps on the back of the wind and floats downstream 
till the current ends and dips his wing in the orange sun rays 
and dares to claim the sky. 
But a bird that stalks down his narrow cage can seldom see through his bars of rage 
his wings are clipped and his feet are tied so he opens his throat to sing. 
The caged bird sings with a fearful trill of things unknown 
but longed for still and his tune is heard on the distant hill for the caged bird sings of freedom. 
The free bird thinks of another breeze and the trade winds soft 
through the sighing trees and the fat worms waiting on a dawn bright lawn 
and he names the sky his own 
But a caged bird stands on the grave of dreams his shadow shouts on a nightmare scream his wings are clipped 
and his feet are tied so he opens his throat to sing. 
The caged bird sings with a fearful trill of things unknown 
but longed for still and his tune is heard on the distant hill for the caged bird sings of freedom. 
A Rock, A River, A Tree Hosts to species long since departed, 
Marked the mastodon, The dinosaur, who left dried tokens 
Of their sojourn here On our planet floor, 
Any broad alarm of their hastening doom Is lost in the gloom of dust and ages. 
But today, the Rock cries out to us, clearly, forcefully, 
Come, you may stand upon my Back and face your distant destiny, 
But seek no haven in my shadow, I will give you no hiding place down here. 
You, created only a little lower than The angels, have crouched too long in The bruising darkness 
Have lain too long Facedown in ignorance, Your mouths spilling words Armed for slaughter. 
The Rock cries out to us today, You may stand upon me, 
But do not hide your face. 
You may write me down in history With your bitter, twisted lies, 
You may trod me in the very dirt But still, like dust, I ll rise. 
Does my sassiness upset you? Why are you beset with gloom? Cause I walk like I've got oil wells Pumping in my living room. 
Just like moons and like suns, With the certainty of tides, Just like hopes springing high, 
Still I ll rise. Did you want to see me broken? Bowed head and lowered eyes? 
Shoulders falling down like teardrops, Weakened by my soulful cries? 
Does my haughtiness offend you? don't you take it awful hard 
Cause I laugh like I've got gold mines Diggin in my own backyard. 
You may shoot me with your words, You may cut me with your eyes, You may kill me with your hatefulness, But still, like air, I ll rise. 
Does my sexiness upset you? Does it come as a surprise That I dance like  
I've got diamonds At the meeting of my thighs? Out of the huts of history's shame 
I rise Up from a past that's rooted in pain I rise I'm a black ocean, leaping and wide, 
Welling and swelling I bear in the tide. 
Leaving behind nights of terror and fear I rise Into a daybreak that's wondrously clear 
I rise Bringing the gifts that my ancestors gave, 
I am the dream and the hope of the slave. I rise I rise I rise. 
Pretty women wonder where my secret lies. 
I'm not cute or built to suit a fashion model s size But when I start to tell them, 
They think I'm telling lies. I say, It's in the reach of my arms, The span of my hips, The stride of my step, 
The curl of my lips. I'm a woman Phenomenally. Phenomenal woman, that's me. 
I walk into a room Just as cool as you please, 
And to a man, The fellows stand or Fall down on their knees. Then they swarm around me, A hive of honey bees. 
I say, It's the fire in my eyes, And the flash of my teeth, 
The swing in my waist, And the joy in my feet. I'm a woman Phenomenally. Phenomenal woman, that's me. 
Men themselves have wondered What they see in me. They try so much But they can't touch My inner mystery. 
When I try to show them, They say they still can't see. I say, It's in the arch of my back, The sun of my smile, 
The ride of my breasts, The grace of my style. 
I'm a woman Phenomenally. Phenomenal woman, that's me. 
Now you understand Just why my head s not bowed. I don't shout or jump about 
Or have to talk real loud. When you see me passing, It ought to make you proud. 
I say, It's in the click of my heels, The bend of my hair, the palm of my hand, The need for my care. 
Cause I'm a woman Phenomenally. Phenomenal woman, that's me. 
Lying, thinking Last night How to find my soul a home Where water is not thirsty 
And bread loaf is not stone I came up with one thing And I don't believe I'm wrong That nobody, 
But nobody Can make it out here alone. Alone, all alone Nobody, but nobody 
Can make it out here alone. There are some millionaires With money they can't use 
Their wives run round like banshees 
Their children sing the blues They've got expensive doctors To cure their hearts of stone. 
But nobody No, nobody Can make it out here alone. Alone, all alone Nobody, but nobody Can make it out here alone. 
Now if you listen closely I ll tell you what I know Storm clouds are gathering 
The wind is gonna blow The race of man is suffering And I can hear the moan, 
Cause nobody, But nobody Can make it out here alone. Alone, all alone Nobody, but nobody Can make it out here alone.